

   What is Generics in Java?

    The Concept of generics in java enabled types in java such as interfaces and classes to parameters while you are defining
    other classes,interfaces and methods.So much like you have parameters that you pass in as input arguments to methods,you can
    have parameters defined when you define your class,method or interface specifying that these are the types that this class method
    or interface recognizes.

   *** Code written using generics have several advantages over non-generics code.*****

    1- Using generics in your java code that several checks which occur at runtime to ensure that the data that you are using is of the
       right type will become compile time checks.So with generics, you are actually converting runtime checks to compile time checks,
       which makes your code more robust and allows you to catch errors very early.
    2- Generics allow extensive code reuse,and when you reuse your code,maintaining that code becomes much easier.let's take a example of the collection framework.
       instead of having a separate collection class for strings,Integers,dates and any other data type,we have the same collection class
       that can hold any kind of data.Thus we've collapsed several classes,maybe thousand of classes to a single class than can work
       with any kind of data.

         1- In a NON-GENERICS world if you want to have a repositories that hold different kinds of data,one technique to achieve this is to have a
            separate repository class for each data type.which is not a good practice.
         2- Rather than having different classes  holding different types of data,we'll create a single java class that holds all kinds of data.
            however we won't have this repository class via generics class yet.

3- Once you have a Generic class,you should be able to get it to work with any data type,Even user defined data Types.
4- Generic classes are able to handle Custom Objects as well.
5- The value of the type parameter is associated with the Object of the repository class and not with the class itself.
6- We notice that since type parameter are object specific,they cannot be used with static members of classes.
7- Any Generic class that you have defined,one that uses type parameters can be instantiated using its RAW type.
8- Raw Objects require us to cast data to the right type,and casting is dangerous and can lead to runtime exceptions.
9- Generics eliminates the need for casting objects to be of the right data type.
10 -Generics promotes code reuse by allowing you to define the code once and use it for multiple types of data.
11- The use of generic classes converts many runtime errors to compile-time checks, thus allowing you to write more robust code